HOW TO PLAY YATZY
Choose a starting player by any method (oldest player, youngest player, highest roll of the dice, etc.)

Beginning with the starting player, players will take turns one at a time in clockwise order. 
The game consists of thirteen rounds and at the end of the thirteenth round then the game will end. 
(All the categories on the players’ score cards will be completely filled in at that point.)

At the start of a turn, the player takes all 5 dice and rolls them. 
They can then roll some or all of the dice up to two more times, 
setting aside any dice they’d like to keep and rerolling the rest. 
The dice can be scored after any of the rolls, but scoring the dice ends the player’s turn. 
Setting dice aside after one roll does not prevent one or more of them from being rolled again 
on any subsequent roll if the player so chooses.

Each player’s goal is to try and score as high as they can in one of the thirteen 
categories shown on their score card.

To score the dice, the player selects one of the categories on their score card and writes 
the score into it. Each category can be scored only once per game. 
Categories can be filled in any order. A player must score the dice on their turn even if it turns out 
that there are no good categories remaining to score in. Once a category is filled it may not be changed.

A player may write a score of zero in any category if they have rolled no point-generating results or if 
they simply choose to do so. For example, a player could put a roll of 2-4-5-6-6 into the 
Ones category even though it would score zero points.

After marking their score on their score card, the player’s turn ends and play proceeds to the player on their left.

The categories on the score card are divided into two sections. The categories in the Upper Section are:

ONES
What is needed to score: Ones
How many points are scored: Receive 1 point for each 1 rolled

TWOS
What is needed to score: Twos
How many points are scored: Receive 2 points for each 2 rolled

THREES
What is needed to score: Threes
How many points are scored: Receive 3 points for each 3 rolled

FOURS
What is needed to score: Fours
How many points are scored: Receive 4 points for each 4 rolled

FIVES
What is needed to score: Fives
How many points are scored: Receive 5 points for each 5 rolled

SIXES
What is needed to score: Sixes
How many points are scored: Receive 6 points for each 6 rolled

Ultimately, each player will want to try and score a grand total of 63 
or more points in the Upper Section by the end of the game. 
If they do so, they receive a 50 point bonus.

The categories in the Lower Section are:

1 PAIR
What is needed to score: One pair

2 PAIRS
What is needed to score: Two pairs

THREE OF A KIND
What is needed to score: Three dice of the same number
How many points are scored: Add up all the spots on all the dice. 
(For example, rolling 2-2-2-3-5 would score a total of 14 points.)

FOUR OF A KIND
What is needed to score: Four dice of the same number
How many points are scored: Add up all the spots on all the dice

FULL HOUSE
What is needed to score: Three dice showing the same number, 
and two dice showing another number.
How many points are scored: 25 points

SMALL STRAIGHT
What is needed to score: Any four consecutive numbers (for example, 3-4-5-6)
How many points are scored: 30 points

LARGE STRAIGHT
What is needed to score: Any five consecutive numbers (for example, 1-2-3-4-5)
How many points are scored: 40 points

YATZY (or Five of a Kind)
What is needed to score: All 5 dice showing the same number
How many points are scored: 50 points

CHANCE
What is needed to score: Any combination of dice
How many points are scored: Add up all the spots on all the dice
It’s possible that a player will end up with a combination of dice that could be 
used in more than one category. For example, a roll of 3-3-3-4-4 could be scored 
as threes or fours in the Upper Section, or as a Full House or a Three-Of-A-Kind, 
or Chance in the Lower Section. The player has the option of scoring the dice in 
any one of those categories as long as they have not been used previously in the game.

If the player can’t use a box in either the upper or Lower Section, they score zero points.

WINNING
Once all players have taken thirteen turns 
(and subsequently filled in all the categories on their score card) the game ends.

Players add up their scores in the following manner:

Upper Section
Mark the total sum of the Upper Section score in the corresponding total score box. 
If a player scores 63 or more points in the Upper Section then they receive a 50 point bonus.

Lower Section
Mark the total sum of the Lower Section score in the corresponding total score box.

Grand Total
Add the total sums of the upper and Lower Sections together. 
This is the player’s total score for the game.

The player with the highest total score is the winner! 
In the case of a tie, all tied players share the victory.